{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/110", "title": "How to Take Care of Goldfish", "text": "How to Take Care of Goldfish The Spruce Pets #fish #goldfish #general Despite popular opinion, goldfish are not \"maintenance-free\" or \"trial\" pets. They require and deserve just as much care as any other pet. Goldfish are hardy species and good at tolerating many beginner's mistakes, but you will need to put in some effort to ensure their health and survival. They should not be kept in a fishbowl but require an aquarium with proper water aeration and filtration. Types of Goldfish There are many different varieties of goldfish. They are commonly divided into standard (long-body) and fancy (round body) varieties. The common Comet Goldfish is the most common pet fish species. Although they are often sold in the pets stores very small, these fish can grow up to 14 to 16 inches long and may require up to 100 gallons at their full size. Shubunkin and Sarasa goldfish varieties have the same body type, but are often more colorful fish, with combinations of red, white, black, and yellow colors. Fancy varieties of goldfish are numerous and have many anatomical adaptations. These breeds include the Oranda, Ranchu, Telescope, Fantail, Celestial, Moor, and other varieties. They have egg-shaped or rounded bodies. Given their body structure, they usually do not grow as large as long-body goldfish and may have some structural issues. These fish are more prone to buoyancy issues, spinal disease, and traumatic injury due to their protruding eyes and delicate fins. The Oranda goldfish has a fleshy growth on its head, called a wen, that may even need trimming if it overgrows the fish’s eyes or face. How Long Do Goldfish Live? When you first bring home your goldfish, how long can you expect them to live? Is a 6-or-7-year-old goldfish dying from old age? Absolutely not. For most comet goldfish, you can expect at least 20 years, with the world record goldfish living for 42 years! Most of the time, as they get larger, goldfish start to get too large for a small aquarium, resulting in poor water quality and stress. This frequently results in secondary illness due to decreased immune function from chronic stress. To take proper care of your goldfish in their later years, be prepared for 30 gallons or more per fish. With proper care, goldfish can easily live a long and healthy life. Fancy vs. Standard Goldfish There are a wide variety of goldfish in the pet industry. With round bodies, protruding eyeballs and ornate fins, fancy varieties of goldfish can be quite elaborate. To obtain these unique individuals, many generations of goldfish have been cross bred. This has led to fancy goldfish having shorter life spans than standard comet goldfish. Most fancy varieties of goldfish should live into their teens, but 20 years is not common. What Can You Do to Help Lengthen Lifespan? To help your goldfish live a long and happy life, proper care of goldfish comes down to providing them the correct environment and diet. These will both change as your goldfish gets older and grows larger. Correct Environment All fish may start small, but many goldfish have the potential to grow as large as a dinner plate! Contrary to popular belief, goldfish do not “grow to the size of their container.” Starting your goldfish in a 20-gallon tank (that’s per fish!) will work for the first few years, but plan on upgrading them as they grow over the years. Goldfish are hungry fish and do not convert their food into mass very well, so they produce a lot of waste. This waste ends up in their aquarium water, causing water quality issues that require frequent cleaning. When fish are swimming in gross water, their immune system does not work well, and the fish will get sick from secondary infections from environmental bacteria and any lingering parasites. This is the most common cause of goldfish death that is commonly attributed to “old age,” when it has to do with your fish’s limited space and poor water quality. Diet and Feeding There are a wide variety of goldfish diets on the pet store shelves. Often, owners are overwhelmed with options and settle on flashy packaging or pricing to guide their decisions, neither of which has any influence on food quality. When it comes to goldfish diets, owner’s should pay attention to the protein and fat content of the diet that is listed on the label. Goldfish require approximately 30% protein for proper body maintenance. Growing juveniles will require more protein, around 35-45%. Fat requirements for goldfish are low due to their limited activity. For maintenance, your goldfish will require around 6% fat, with young fish and reproductively-active fish requiring around 10% fat in the diet. Flake diets are only for tiny fish. Once your goldfish can eat a pellet, they should be switched over from flakes to pellets. Goldfish pellets come in very small sizes these days, so size is not an excuse to keep feeding your fish flakes. Pellets retain their nutrition significantly better than flakes due to their lower surface-to-mass ratio. Your fish may not like the switch because flakes smell and taste better than pellets. Use some tough love and tell your fish it’s better for their overall health, not to mention less waste for you to clean! Remember to replace your container of fish food every six months to maintain good vitamin content. Geriatric Goldfish Care Once your goldfish reaches “geriatric” age in their late teens and early 20s—or early teens for fancy varieties—you can expect to see some changes in their behavior. As they get older, expect your goldfish to not swim as much and take extended rest periods on the bottom of their aquarium. You will need to keep their water quality and tank clean to support them in their later years. Some goldfish may start to eat a little less, but this is not common. Older goldfish may be more selective about their diet, so offering a variety of pellets may be required to maintain their nutrition. Do not just feed them treats, such as dried or frozen shrimp. All fish require a well-rounded diet that most pellets can provide, made from a mix of proteins and veggies. Overall, goldfish are one of the most long-lived pet species, so a death at less than 10 years old is usually not age-related. More often, as they grow, goldfish max out their space and resources. What is appropriate for a small goldfish will not be the same for life. Adjust the aquarium size and filtration as your pet goldfish grows to provide a proper habitat for a long and happy life. Environmental Requirements No matter what variety of goldfish you keep, maintaining a proper aquatic environment is critical. You will need at least 20 gallons of water per goldfish and expect your long-body goldfish to outgrow this within the first 5 to 10 years. Comet goldfish can easily live into their 20s and some have lived over 40 years, with the fancy varieties usually surviving into their mid-teens. Most goldfish are very tolerant of beginner water quality mistakes. They are a very hardy species and can tolerate moderate levels of ammonia, nitrite, and nitrate in circulating tanks. Once your aquarium nitrogen cycle has been established, it is recommended to keep your nitrate less than 20 mg/L, and the ammonia and nitrite at zero. In densely packed tanks, this may be hard to maintain without frequent water changes. Goldfish are notorious for constantly eating and creating a lot of waste—hence the spatial needs. They can also tolerate a wide range of pH, provided your kH is high enough to stabilize the pH levels. Goldfish are natural foragers and may spend most of their time digging around in the substrate of their aquarium or pond looking for food. They like to suck every morsel out of their meals and will often pick up small rocks in their mouth to clean off food particles. These have a very low chance of getting stuck in their mouth, so don't worry about your fish picking them up. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/fish", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/goldfish", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/general"]}