{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/20", "title": "Cancer in dog", "text": "Cancer in dog ASPCA #dog #diseases Cancer is a class of diseases in which cells grow uncontrollably, invade surrounding tissue and may spread to other areas of the body. As with people, dogs can get various kinds of cancer. The disease can be localized (confined to one area, like a tumor) or generalized (spread throughout the body). Causes of Cancer Cancer is a “multifactorial” disease, which means it has no known single cause. However, we do know that both hereditary and environmental factors can contribute to the development of cancer in dogs. Cancer Symptoms Symptoms of cancer in dogs may include: •Lumps (which are not always malignant, but should always be examined by a vet) •Swelling •Persistent sores •Abnormal discharge from any part of the body •Bad breath •Listlessness/lethargy •Rapid, often unexplained weight loss •Sudden lameness •Black, tarry stools (a symptom of ulcers, which can be caused by mast cell tumors) •Decreased or loss of appetite. •Difficulty breathing, urinating, or defecating. Diagnosing Cancer in Dogs •If a lump is present, the first step is typically a needle biopsy, which removes a very small tissue sample for microscopic examination of cells. Alternately, surgery may be performed to remove all or part of the lump for diagnosis by a pathologist. •Radiographs (xrays), ultrasound, blood evaluation and other diagnostic tests may also be helpful in determining if cancer is present or if it has spread. Dogs More Prone to Cancer •Though cancer can be diagnosed in dogs of all ages and breeds, it is much more common in older dogs. •Certain breeds are prone to specific cancers. Boxers, Boston terriers and Golden Retrievers are among the breeds that most commonly develop mast cell tumors or lymphoma, while large and giant breeds like Great Danes and Saint Bernards are much more likely to suffer from bone cancer than smaller breeds. It is important to be familiar with the diseases to which your dog might have a breed disposition. Cancer Prevention •Having your dog altered at a young age can dramatically reduce their chance of getting certain types of cancer. •Breast cancer can be avoided almost completely by having your dog spayed before her first heat cycle, while a neutered male dog has zero chance of developing testicular cancer. Cancer Treatments •Treatment options vary and depend on the type and stage of cancer. •Common treatments include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation and immunotherapy or a combination of therapies. Success of treatment depends on the type and extent of the cancer and the aggressiveness of the therapy. Of course, early detection is best. •Some dog owners opt for no treatment of the cancer, in which case palliative end of life care, including pain relief, should be considered. Regardless of how you proceed after a diagnosis of cancer in your pet, it is very important to consider his quality of life when making future decisions. •Some cancers can be cured, while others cannot. Please note that if your dog’s cancer is not curable, there are still many things you can do to make your pet feel better. Don’t hesitate to talk to your vet about your options. And remember good nutrition and loving care can greatly enhance your dog’s quality of life. When to See the Vet Contact your veterinarian immediately if your dog shows any of the clinical signs mentioned on the list above. Should your dog receive a diagnosis of cancer, you may wish to consult a veterinary oncologist, often employed by specialty veterinary practices and teaching hospitals. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/dog", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/diseases"]}