{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/131", "title": "Havana Rabbit", "text": "Havana Rabbit The Spruce Pets #rabbit #general Once known as the \"fire-eye from Ingen\" and often referred to as the mink of the rabbit world, the Havana rabbit breed is over 100 years old. They got their name from the dark color of a Havana cigar but can come in several colors besides rich dark chocolate. Their incredibly soft fur makes them a popular pet but like other rabbits, Havanas need the right type of care to thrive. Species Overview Common Name: Havana rabbit Scientific Name: Oryctolagus Cuniculus Adult Size: 4.5-6.5 kilograms Lifespan: 5-8 years but some can live to be up to 12 years of age Havana Rabbit Behavior and Temperament Havana rabbits may be popular because of their soft fur, but like other rabbits, they are also loved for their individual personalities and antics. Havanas are not aggressive, love to play and run around, and can make great family pets. They can be very affectionate and friendly and are sometimes even said to be one of the calmest rabbit breeds. Size Information Havana rabbits are small to medium-sized rabbit. Some people call them dwarf or miniature rabbits, but they are a little larger than a dwarf. They are compact as opposed to long-bodied and usually weigh around 5 pounds fully grown. Their bodies are described as being short and round. Housing You have a lot of options when it comes to housing your Havana rabbit. Outdoor rabbit hutches can be built or purchased but should be very secure to ensure your little bunny can't escape and predators can't break in. Make sure the bottom of outdoor hutches is solid and not wire-based, which can lead to feet problems. Indoor enclosures can also be purchased but since rabbits need a lot of space to run around, it is recommended to have at a cage that is at least 3 ft x 3 ft in addition to a rabbit-proofed play area in your home. Specific Substrate Needs If you choose to use a substrate in your Havana rabbit's cage, avoid cedar and pine shavings. These wood shavings can be aromatic and also contain oils that can cause respiratory and skin issues for your rabbit. Aspen shavings or recycled paper materials are better options if you want to give your bunny some bedding to sleep in or walk on. These same substrates can also be placed in your rabbit's litter box or you can use hay, paper-based beddings, or as a last option, unscented, dust free cat-litter. What Do Havana Rabbits Eat & Drink? Havana rabbits need a variety of veggies and hay in their diet in addition to fresh water. About 1/4 cup of rabbit pellets (without seeds or food coloring) should be offered each day but your rabbit should primarily eat grass hays and dark, leafy green vegetables. Less than 5 percent of their diet can consist of treats like sugar-free cereals, crackers, fruits, and vegetables that aren't green. Both a water bottle and bowl of water should be always available to encourage your rabbit to drink adequate water. Common Health Problems Havana rabbits are usually pretty healthy, but any pet rabbit is prone to developing some of the following health issues: •\tDental issues •\tEar mites and infections •\tSkin mites and infections •\tEye problems •\tRespiratory issues •\tIleus •\tReproductive organ issues All of these health problems and many others will require the help of a veterinarian experienced in rabbit care. Training Your Havana Rabbit Havana rabbits are great rabbits to train to play fetch, respond to their name, use a litter box, and more! Leash Training If you want to keep your rabbit close to you while still giving them some exercise outside, a harness and leash may be a good option. Make sure you choose a harness that is specifically designed for a compact rabbit's body and coax them to walk on the leash using treats until they get used to it. Potty Training Litter box training your Havana rabbit isn't very difficult and can help you keep your home clean. It will also encourage you to let your rabbit roam around the house more if you know you step in a surprise. Since rabbits like to eat and poop at the same time, putting your rabbit's hay hopper in a place where they have to sit in the litter box to eat is one of the easiest things you can do to start the potty training process. Exercise Exercise is vital to your Havana rabbit's mental and physical health. It needs ample space to run and play every day so that can forage for food, be mentally stimulated, find things to chew on, maintain muscle mass, and keep its digestive tract moving. Gastrointestinal motility can decrease or stop due to stress as well as a lack of physical mobility so if you don't give your Havana rabbit exercise, it is likely to develop serious health issues. Grooming The mink-like fur of a Havana rabbit is very easy to maintain, especially since rabbits groom themselves much like cats. Despite this, nail trims and occasional other grooming needs may arise. Shedding Havana rabbits shed on a regular basis, but major molts or sheds occur twice a year in the spring and fall. During these major sheds, more fur will be lost by your rabbit than normal, but Havana rabbit hair is very fine and short. Brushing You shouldn't have to brush your Havana rabbit on a regular basis, but it definitely doesn't hurt to use a soft brush if you want to have a bonding moment with your bunny. If your rabbit develops matting on their feet or hind ends, there is most likely an issue with the environment or a medical concern that should be addressed. Baths Since Havana rabbits will keep themselves clean on their own, unless your rabbit runs through a mess, is sick and gets a dirty hind end, or has a messy meal, you shouldn't have to bathe them. If a bath is needed though, make sure you use warm, not hot, water and don't fully immerse or get the rabbit's whole body wet—only bathe the areas that need it as they can be prone to getting cold. Upkeep Costs Caring for a Havana rabbit may cost more than you expect. Due to daily fresh vegetables, hay, and pellets, expect to spend around $50 a month on food and another $10-$20 on toys and bedding for your rabbit. Additionally, you'll want to budget for routine and emergency vet visits for when your rabbit requires medical attention. Pros & Cons of Keeping a Havana Rabbit as a Pet Rabbits require a lot more space and attention than many people think, but they are also very personable pets. Havana rabbits are easy to handle and bond with but they do require fresh vegetables to eat each day and will need their litter box cleaned regularly. Reproduction/Breeding If you decide to get more than one rabbit and they are of opposite sexes, you'll want to get your female spayed to prevent unwanted litters. Most exotic animal veterinarians will recommend spaying female rabbits (regardless of having a male or not) as it can prolong their life and keep them free of reproductive problems. Alternatively, you can get two females. If you want to get two males, you'll need to get them neutered if you want to keep them from fighting with each other. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/rabbit", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/general"]}