{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/11", "title": "Barking", "text": "Barking ASPCA #dog #barking #behavior issues Barking is one of many forms of vocal communication for dogs. People are often pleased that their dog barks, because it alerts them to the approach of people to their home or it tells them there’s something that the dog wants or needs. However, sometimes a dog’s barking can be excessive. Because barking serves a variety of functions, you must identify its cause and your dog’s motivation for barking before you can treat a barking problem. Each type of barking serves a distinct function for a dog, and if he’s repeatedly rewarded for his barking—in other words, if it gets him what he wants—he can learn to use barking to his benefit. For example, dogs who successfully bark for attention often go on to bark for other things, like food, play and walks. For this reason, it’s important to train your dog to be quiet on cue so that you can stop his attention-related barking and teach him to do another behavior instead—like sit or down—to get what he wants. Many owners can identify why their dog is barking just by hearing the specific bark. For instance, a dog’s bark sounds different when he wants to play as compared to when he wants to come in from the yard. If you want to reduce your dog’s barking, it’s crucial to determine why he’s barking. It will take some time to teach your dog to bark less. Unfortunately, it’s just not realistic to expect a quick fix or to expect that your dog will stop barking altogether. (Would you expect a person to suddenly stop talking altogether?) Your goal should be to decrease, rather than eliminate, the amount of barking. Bear in mind that some dogs are more prone to barking than others. In addition, some breeds are known as “barkers,” and it can be harder to decrease barking in individuals of these breeds. Why Dogs Bark Territorial Barking Dogs can bark excessively in response to people, dogs or other animals within or approaching their territories. Your dog's territory includes the area surrounding his home and, eventually, anywhere he has explored or associates strongly with you: your car, the route you take during walks and other places where he spends a lot of time. Alarm Barking If your dog barks at any and every noise and sight regardless of the context, he’s probably alarm barking. Dogs engaged in alarm barking usually have stiffer body language than dogs barking to greet, and they often move or pounce forward an inch or two with each bark. Alarm barking is different than territorial barking in that a dog might alarm bark at sights or sounds in any location at all, not just when he’s defending familiar areas, such as your house, yard or car. Attention-Seeking Barking Some dogs bark at people or other animals to gain attention or rewards, like food, toys or play. Greeting Barking Your dog might be barking in greeting if he barks when he sees people or other dogs and his body is relaxed, he’s excited and his tail is wagging. Dogs who bark when greeting people or other animals might also whine. Compulsive Barking Some dogs bark excessively in a repetitive way, like a broken record. These dogs often move repetitively as well. For example, a dog who’s compulsively barking might run back and forth along the fence in his yard or pace in his home. Socially Facilitated Barking Some dogs barks excessively only when they hear other dogs barking. This kind of barking occurs in the social context of hearing other dogs, even at a distance—such as dogs in the neighborhood. Frustration-Induced Barking Some dogs bark excessively only when they’re placed in a frustrating situation, like when they can’t access playmates or when they’re confined or tied up so that their movement is restricted. Other Problems That Can Cause Barking Illness or Injury Dogs sometimes bark in response to pain or a painful condition. Before attempting to resolve your dog’s barking problem, please have your dog examined by a veterinarian to rule out medical causes. Separation-Anxiety Barking Excessive barking due to separation anxiety occurs only when a dog’s caretaker is gone or when the dog is left alone. You’ll usually see at least one other separation anxiety symptom as well, like pacing, destruction, elimination, depression or other signs of distress. For more information about this problem, please see our article, Separation Anxiety. What to Do About Your Dog’s Excessive Barking The first step toward reducing your dog’s barking is to determine the type of bark your dog is expressing. The following questions can help you to accurately decide on which type of barking your dog is doing so that you can best address your dog’s problem. Think about your answers to these questions as you read through the information below on the different types of barking and their treatments. 1. When and where does the barking occur? 2. Who or what is the target of the barking? 3. What things (objects, sounds, animals or people) trigger the barking? 4. Why is your dog barking? If It’s Territorial Barking or Alarm Barking Territorial behavior is often motivated by both fear and anticipation of a perceived threat. Because defending territory is such a high priority to them, many dogs are highly motivated to bark when they detect the approach of unknown people or animals near familiar places, like their homes and yards. This high level of motivation means that when barking territorially, your dog might ignore unpleasant or punishing responses from you, such as scolding or yelling. Even if the barking itself is suppressed by punishment, your dog’s motivation to guard his territory will remain strong, and he might attempt to control his territory in another way, such as biting without warning. Dogs engage in territorial barking to alert others to the presence of visitors or to scare off intruders or both. A dog might bark when he sees or hears people coming to the door, the mail carrier delivering the mail and the maintenance person reading the gas meter. He might also react to the sights and sounds of people and dogs passing by your house or apartment. Some dogs get especially riled up when they’re in the car and see people or dogs pass by. You should be able to judge from your dog’s body posture and behavior whether he’s barking to say “Welcome, come on in!” or “Hey, you’d better hit the road. You’re not welcome at my place!” If you’re dealing with a dog in the first category, follow the treatment outlined in this article for greeting barking (below). If you’re dealing with a dog in the latter category who isn’t friendly to people, you’ll be more successful if you limit your dog’s ability to see or hear passersby and teach him to associate the presence of strangers with good things, such as food and attention. For treatment of territorial barking, your dog’s motivation should be reduced as well as his opportunities to defend his territory. To manage your dog’s behavior, you’ll need to block his ability to see people and animals. Removable plastic film or spray-based glass coatings can help to obscure your dog’s view of areas that he observes andguards from within your house. Use secure, opaque fencing to surround outside areas your dog has access to. Don’t allow your dog to greet people at the front door, at your front yard gate or at your property boundary line. Instead, train him to go to an alternate location, like a crate or a mat, and remain quiet until he’s invited to greet appropriately. Alarm barking is very similar to territorial barking in that it’s triggered by sights and sounds. However, dogs who alarm bark might do so in response to things that startle or upset them when they’re not on familiar turf. For example, a dog who barks territorially in response to the sight of strangers approaching will usually only do so when in his own home, yard or car. By contrast, a dog who habitually alarm barks might vocalize when he sees or hears strangers approaching in other places, too. Although territorial barking and alarm barking are a little different, the recommendations below apply to both problems. “Quiet” Training If your dog continues to alarm bark or bark territorially, despite your efforts to block his exposure to sights and sounds that might trigger his barking, try the following techniques: • Teach your dog that when someone comes to the door or passes by your property, he’s permitted to bark until you say “Quiet.” Allow your dog to bark three to four times. Then say “Quiet.” Avoid shouting. Just say the command clearly and calmly. Then go to your dog, gently hold his muzzle closed with your hand and repeat “Quiet.” Release your dog’s muzzle, step away, and call him away from the door or window. Then ask your dog to sit and give him a treat. If he stays beside you and remains quiet, continue to give him frequent treats for the next few minutes, until whatever triggered his barking is gone. If your dog resumes barking right away, repeat the sequence above. Do the same outside if he barks at passersby when he’s in the yard. • If you prefer not to hold your dog’s muzzle or if doing so seems to scare your dog or make him struggle, you can try a different method. When your dog barks, approach him, calmly say “Quiet,” and then prompt his silence by feeding him a steady stream of tiny, pea-sized treats, such as chicken, hot dogs or bits of cheese. After enough repetitions of this sequence, over several days or more of training, your dog will begin to understand what “Quiet” means. You’ll know that he’s catching on if he consistently stops barking as soon as he hears you say “Quiet.” At this point, you can gradually extend the time between the cue, “Quiet,” and your dog’s reward. For example, say “Quiet,” wait 2 seconds, and then feed your dog several small treats in a row. Over many repetitions, gradually increase the time from 2 seconds to 5, then 10, then 20, and so on. • If the “Quiet” procedure is ineffective after 10 to 20 attempts, then allow your dog to bark 3 to 4 times, calmly say “Quiet,” and then immediately make a startling noise by shaking a set of keys or an empty soda can filled with pennies. If your dog is effectively startled by the sound, he’ll stop barking. The instant he does, call him away from the door or window, ask him to sit, and give him a treat. If he stays beside you and remains quiet, continue to give him frequent treats for the next few minutes until whatever triggered his barking is gone. If he resumes barking right away, repeat the sequence. If this procedure doesn’t work after 10 to 20 attempts, please Find Professional Behavior Help. • If your dog barks at people or other dogs during walks, distract him with special treats, like chicken, cheese or hot dogs, before he begins to bark. (Soft, very tasty treats work best.) Show your dog the treats by holding them in front of his nose, and encourage him to nibble at them while he’s walking past a person or dog who would normally cause him to bark. Some dogs do best if you ask them to sit as people or dogs pass. Other dogs prefer to keep moving. Make sure you praise and reward your dog with treats anytime he chooses not to bark. • It may help to have your dog wear a head halter at times when he’s likely to bark (for example, on walks or in your house). A halter can have a distracting or calming effect and make your dog less likely to bark. Make sure you reward him for not barking. (Important note: For safety reasons, only let your dog wear the halter when you can supervise him.) • If your dog most often barks territorially in your yard, keep him in the house during the day and supervise him when he’s in the yard so that he can’t just bark his head off when no one’s around. If he’s sometimes able to engage in excessive alarm barking (when you’renot home, for example), that behavior will be reinforced when it goes unpunished. Use management techniques to prevent your dog from being able to practice the behavior. For example, close your curtains so that your dog can't see people passing by your house, or confine your dog to a back room when the mail carrier or other visitors are expected. If It's Attention-Seeking Barking Attention-seeking barking can be a nuisance, but it's relatively easy to address. Here's what you can do: • When your dog barks to get attention, ignore him. Turn your back, cross your arms and don't make eye contact. Don't yell at him or push him away. Just completely ignore him. When he stops barking, wait for a moment of silence, and then reward him with praise and a treat. Gradually increase the duration of the silence required for a reward, so that your dog learns that staying quiet brings the best results. • Teach your dog an alternative behavior, like sitting or lying down, to earn attention and rewards. Practice this behavior regularly and reinforce it with praise, treats or playtime. This way, your dog will learn that being quiet and calm is more effective in getting what he wants. If It's Greeting Barking Greeting barking can be managed and modified using the following techniques: • Teach your dog an alternative behavior, like sitting, when people approach. Practice this behavior with friends or family members who are willing to help. Ask them to approach your house or yard, and when your dog starts to bark, instruct him to sit and reward him for staying quiet and calm. Over time, your dog will associate the arrival of people with the cue to sit rather than barking. • Use a leash when taking your dog for walks and maintain control of his behavior. If he starts to bark at people or other dogs, interrupt him with a gentle tug on the leash, redirect his attention to you, and reward him for being calm. Consistency and repetition are key in training your dog to be quiet and well-behaved on walks. If It's Compulsive Barking Compulsive barking can be challenging to address, and it's recommended to seek professional help from a qualified dog behaviorist or trainer. They can assess your dog's behavior and provide tailored strategies to manage and modify compulsive barking. If It's Socially Facilitated Barking Socially facilitated barking can be managed by addressing your dog's excitement and arousal levels when he hears other dogs barking. Here are some tips: • Practice obedience exercises and focus training with your dog in the presence of other dogs barking. Teach him to respond to your commands and to redirect his attention to you. Reward calm and attentive behavior with treats or playtime. • Gradually expose your dog to controlled situations where he can hear other dogs barking from a distance. Start with a distance that doesn't trigger excessive barking and reward your dog for staying calm and quiet. Gradually decrease the distance over time, always reinforcing calm behavior. If It's Frustration-Induced Barking Frustration-induced barking can be addressed by minimizing your dog's frustration and providing appropriate outlets for his energy. Here's what you can do: • Ensure that your dog gets plenty of physical exercise and mental stimulation. Regular walks, interactive toys, and training sessions can help reduce frustration and channel his energy. • Avoid placing your dog in situations that trigger frustration, such as prolonged confinement or being tied up. Instead, create a calm and enriching environment where he can engage in appropriate behaviors. If Other Problems Are Causing Barking If you suspect that illness, injury, separation anxiety, or other underlying issues are causing your dog's excessive barking, it's essential to consult with a veterinarian. They can conduct a thorough examination, diagnose any potential health problems, and recommend appropriate treatment options. Remember, addressing excessive barking requires patience, consistency, and positive reinforcement. Training techniques may vary depending on your dog's temperament and specific barking triggers. If you're having difficulties or if your dog's barking persists despite your efforts, consider seeking assistance from a professional dog trainer or behaviorist who can provide personalized guidance. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/dog", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/barking", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/behavior%20issues"]}