{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/44", "title": "Diabetes in cat", "text": "Diabetes in cat ASPCA #cat #diseases Diabetes in cats is a complex disease caused by either a lack of the hormone insulin or an inadequate response to insulin. After a cat eats, her digestive system breaks food into various components, including glucose—which is carried into her cells by insulin. When a cat does not produce insulin or cannot utilize it normally, her blood sugar levels elevate. The result is hyperglycemia, which, if left untreated, can cause many complicated health problems for a cat. It is important to understand that diabetes is considered a manageable disorder—and many diabetic cats can lead happy, healthy lives. Some may even go into remission! Diabetes can be classified as: •Type I (lack of insulin production) •Type II (impaired insulin production along with an inadequate response to the hormone). Cats with type II diabetes can progress to type I diabetes. In fact, by the time most cats are diagnosed with diabetes, they are identified as having the type I disorder. These cats require insulin therapy for survival. Cats with type II disease may respond to other forms of therapy. Diabetes Symptoms in Cats The following are signs that your cat may be diabetic: •Change in appetite (either increased or decreased) •Weight loss •Excessive thirst/increase in water consumption •Increased urination •Urinating in areas other than litter box •Unusually sweet-smelling breath •Lethargy •Dehydration •Unkempt hair coat •Urinary tract infection Causes of Diabetes The exact cause of diabetes is unknown. Genetics, pancreatic disease, certain medications and abnormal protein deposits in the pancreas can play a role in causing this disorder. The most important factors in the development of diabetes seem to be obesity, gender (male cats are more commonly afflicted than females) and age. Diagnosing Diabetes To properly diagnose diabetes, your veterinarian will collect information about clinical signs, perform a physical examination and check blood work and urinalysis. Treating Diabetes •Every diabetic cat is an individual and will respond differently to therapy. Diabetes treatment is based on how severe the signs of disease are and whether there are any other health issues that could complicate therapy. •Some cats are seriously ill when first diagnosed and require intensive hospitalized care for several days to regulate their blood sugar levels. •Cats who are more stable when first diagnosed may respond to oral medication or a high-fiber diet. •For most cats, insulin injections are necessary for adequate regulation of blood glucose. Once your pet’s individual insulin treatment is established, typically based on weight, you will be shown how to give him his insulin injections at home. •Your vet may also show you how to perform glucose tests at home. Other routine blood work may also be necessary. As your veterinarian will explain, it’s important to always give your cat insulin at the same time every day and feed her regular meals in conjunction with her medication; this allows increased nutrients in the blood to coincide with peak insulin level. This will lessen the chance that her sugar levels will swing either too high or too low. You can work with your vet to create a feeding schedule around your pet’s medication time. It is also important to avoid feeding your diabetic cat treats that are high in glucose. Diabetes Prevention A proper diet and regular exercise can go a long way to avoid the development of feline diabetes. Aside from other negative effects, obesity is known to contribute to insulin resistance. When to See Your Vet If your cat is showing any abnormal clinical signs as listed above, make an appointment to see your veterinarian immediately. If a diabetic cat is not treated, he can develop kidney disease, neurological disorders or other metabolic diseases. Cats with type I diabetes require insulin therapy for survival. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/cat", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/diseases"]}