{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/156", "title": "Common Hamster Behaviors", "text": "Common Hamster Behaviors The Spruce Pets #rodents #behavior issues The following hamster behaviors are completely normal so, if you see your pet doing any of these things, everything’s good in the hamster house. Being active at night If your hamster is awake and running around their habitat at night, have no fear – this is a sign of a happy hamster. “Hamsters are nocturnal animals,” says Dr Shermaine Wilson Cox , a small animal veterinarian based outside of Atlanta, Georgia, USA. “This means they are less active during the day and more active at night. They are really energetic and will exercise for three to four hours each night.” Chewing stuff Chewing behavior in hamsters is a way for these small animals to grind down their teeth. “Hamster teeth are constantly growing,” says Dr Sara Ochoa, a small animal veterinarian based in Texas. “Give them approved things to chew on. Things like wooden blocks or crunchy food are good for them to chew on.” Stuffing their cheeks Hamsters use their cheek pouches to carry and store food, says Dr Wilson Cox, who adds that hamsters can carry up to 50% of their body weight in their cheeks. “The cheek pouches are used to transport food, bedding material, and occasionally their young,” she says. “After stuffing their cheek pouches with food, they will take it back to their burrow or special hiding place and empty the pouches into their food store.” Burrowing and hiding Hamsters instinctively burrow or hide as a means of protection and staying safe. “This is their way of hiding from any danger,” says Dr Ochoa. “They will usually hide when they want to rest. This is how the stay safe while they sleep.” HOW CAN I TELL MY HAMSTER IS HAPPY? Watch your hamster closely and check out their body language. A yawning hamster is pleasantly sleepy and comfortable. Relaxed grooming, stretching, burrowing in the bedding, collecting food, and lively acrobatics in the cage are all signs that life is good for your hamster pal. Leaping into the air signals high spirits and reveals he or she is in a very good mood indeed. Hamster behaviors that are not normal The following are signs that a hamster may be unwell. If you notice any of these symptoms, make an appointment to see your vet as soon as possible. Hibernating If there is a sudden drop in temperature in a hamster’s environment, a hamster may go into hibernation – something that’s normal for wild hamsters, but not for pets. Dr Wilson Cox explains that this often happens at a temperature of around 41oF (5oC). A hamster’s habitat should be kept at normal household temperatures to maintain a healthy pet (up to 80oF (26oC). Lacking in energy Hamsters are active and energetic animals, so if your hamster is being sluggish, get them checked out by your vet promptly. “Any time a hamster is acting lethargic we start to worry,” says Dr Ochoa. “Hamsters do not show signs of sickness until they are very sick.” Not eating or drinking A healthy hamster should have a healthy appetite, so if your hamster is not eating or is refusing food, there may be something wrong. “With them being so small, even just a few hours without eating or drinking, they can get dehydrated very easily,” advises Dr Ochoa. Not chewing If you notice improperly aligned teeth or if your hamster’s teeth look overgrown and you don’t see them chewing regularly you should consult your vet immediately. Uncharacteristic hiding Hamsters do burrow and hide, but it’s mostly when they’re settling down for a nap. If your hamster is hiding constantly during regular awake or play periods, it may be a sign of anxiety or stress. “If a pet is afraid, they will usually be hiding a lot,” says Dr Ochoa. “They may do this if a cat (or other animal) is constantly watching them.” Other behaviors to look out for: Burrowing in bedding: This means your hamster is happily occupied and just digging around, quite possibly in search of a snack they buried earlier. Watching you with ears erect: This shows your pet is calm but rather curious about what’s going on Ears laid back with narrowed eyes: This is a sign of suspicion – they think something is up that they may need to run and hide from. Ears forward with cheek pouches puffed up and mouth open: Your hamster is showing that they’re scared about something – try to identify and remove what’s causing them stress – whether that’s loud noises or other pets getting too close to their enclosure. Standing on their hind legs with their front paws raised: Your hamster is telling you they’re feeling threatened and might get aggressive if you don’t back off – this may be accompanied by teeth chattering. Stretching their limbs: Your hamster is feeling pretty relaxed about life. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/rodents", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/behavior%20issues"]}