{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/46", "title": "Feline Leukemia Virus (FelV)", "text": "Feline Leukemia Virus (FelV) ASPCA #cat #diseases First discovered in the 1960s, feline leukemia virus is a transmittable RNA retrovirus that can severely inhibit a cat’s immune system. It is one of the most commonly diagnosed causes of disease and death in domestic cats. Because the virus doesn’t always manifest symptoms right away, any new cat entering a household—and any sick cat—should be tested for FeLV. FeLV weakens an animal’s immune system and predisposes cats to a variety of infections and diseases, including anemia, kidney disease and lymphosarcoma, a highly malignant and fatal cancer of the lymph system. Young kittens and cats less than one year of age are most susceptible to the virus. Cats living with an infected cat,  allowed outdoors where they may be bitten by an infected cat, and kittens  born to a mother who is FeLV positive are most at risk for infection. •The FeLV virus is shed in many bodily fluids, including saliva, nasal secretions, urine, feces and blood. •FeLV is most commonly transmitted through direct contact, mutual grooming and through sharing litter boxes, food and water bowls. •It can also be passed in utero or through mother’s milk. •Infected outdoor cats fighting with other cats can transmit the disease through bites and scratches. Healthy cats over three months of age and vaccinated for FeLV are highly unlikely to contract the virus from another cat. Signs of FeLV Cats can be infected and show no signs. Others may exhibit: •Loss of appetite and weight loss •Pale or inflamed gums •Poor coat condition •Abcesses •Fever •Upper respiratory infections •Diarrhea and vomiting •Seizures •Changes in behavior •Vision or other eye problems •Enlarged lymph nodes •Reproductive problems (in females) •Jaundice •Chronic skin disease •Respiratory distress •Lethargy Preventing FelV •There is a vaccine available for cats who are at risk of contracting FeLV. Like all vaccines, there are risks involved in vaccination, and the vaccine is not a 100% guarantee against infection. Your veterinarian can best evaluate whether this vaccine is right for your cat. •As with any infectious disease, the best prevention is eliminating sources of exposure. Routine FeLV testing and keeping your cat indoors and away from cats whose FeLV status is not known remain the best way to prevent your cat from becoming infected. Diagnosing FelV There are several types of tests available to diagnose FeLV. •Most veterinarians and shelter professionals use the ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) test, which detects antigen to the FELV virus in the bloodstream. •Other tests like the IFA (indirect fluorescent antibody) test or PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test are recommended to confirm positive ELISA test results. Caring for a Cat with FelV •Feed your cat a nutritionally balanced diet, one free of raw meat, eggs and unpasteurized dairy products, which can harbor bacteria and parasites and lead to infection. •Provide a quiet place for your cat to rest indoors and away from other cats who could promote disease. •Bring your cat to the vet every six months—at the very least—for a wellness checkup and blood tests. •During the early stages of infection, a cat may not show any clinical signs, but he can still pass the virus to other cats. It’s not advisable to introduce a new uninfected cat into the household, even one who has been properly vaccinated against FeLV. Those living in close quarters with infected cats are most at risk for infection, and should be tested for the virus and, if negative, be housed separately. •FeLV is contagious to other cats, but not to humans or other species. Other cats in the house can acquire the virus from an infected cat. Though the virus doesn’t live long outside of the body, and is easily inactivated with common disinfectants, it can be passed through mutual grooming, shared food and water as well as common litter boxes. •Sadly there is no cure for FeLV, and it is estimated that less than 20% of clinically infected cats survive more than three years of active infection. In the case of those cats who develop cancer, chemotherapy can help prolong life, but treatment often focuses on providing the best quality of life. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/cat", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/diseases"]}