{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/49", "title": "Rabies in cat", "text": "Rabies in cat ASPCA #cat #diseases Rabies is a viral disease that affects the brain and spinal cord of all mammals, including cats, dogs and humans. This preventable disease has been reported in every state except Hawaii. There’s good reason that the very word “rabies” evokes fear in people—once symptoms appear, rabies is close to 100% fatal. Rabies Transmission There are several reported routes of transmission of the rabies virus. •Rabies is most often transmitted through a bite from an infected animal. •Less frequently, it can be passed on when the saliva of an infected animal enters another animal’s body through mucous membranes or an open, fresh wound. •The risk for contracting rabies runs highest if your cat is exposed to wild animals. Outbreaks can occur in populations of wild animals (most often raccoons, bats, skunks and foxes in this country) or in areas where there are significant numbers of unvaccinated, free-roaming dogs and cats. •In the United States, rabies is reported in cats more than in any other domestic species. •Unvaccinated cats who are allowed to roam outdoors are at the highest risk for rabies infection. •Feral cat populations remain a reservoir host for the rabies virus. Rabies Prevention •Vaccination is the key—and in many areas of the country, such as New York City, it's the law. •Some local ordinances require lengthy quarantines—or euthanasia—of pets who have bitten someone if their owners do not have proof of current vaccination. •Vaccinating your cat doesn't just protect her from rabies—it also protects your cat if she bites someone. •In municipalities where rabies vaccinations for cats are not required, the decision to vaccinate is best left to the judgment of the veterinarian and the cat guardian because some cats experience serious side effects to the rabies vaccine. •The vaccine should definitely be administered if your cat spends any time outdoors (ASPCA experts recommend keeping pet cats indoors). Symptoms of Rabies •Animals will not show signs immediately following exposure to a rabid animal. Symptoms can be varied and can take months to develop. Classic signs of rabies in cats include: •Changes in behavior (including aggression, restlessness and lethargy), •Increased vocalization •Loss of appetite •Weakness •Disorientation •Paralysis •Seizures •Sudden death Diagnosing Rabies •There is no accurate test to diagnose rabies in live animals. •The direct fluorescent antibody test is the most accurate test for diagnosis, but it can only be performed after the death of the animal. •The rabies virus can incubate in a cat’s body anywhere from just one week to more than a year before the virus appears in the saliva and the cat is capable of transmitting the disease. •When the animal becomes infectious, symptoms appear quickly.  It is possible for a cat, or dog, to shed the virus for several days before clinical signs appear. •There is no treatment or cure for rabies once symptoms appear. The disease results in fatality. When to See the Vet •When Your Cat Interacts With a Rabid Animal •Call your veterinarian for an immediate appointment! •Contact local animal control officers if the animal who bit your pet is still at large; they will be best able to safely apprehend and remove the animal from the environment. •A cat who is up to date with his vaccinations and who has been bitten by a possibly rabid animal should also be given a rabies booster vaccine immediately and kept under observation for 45 days. •If you think you’ve been bitten by a rabid animal, see your doctor immediately! Note: Do not attempt to handle or capture a wild animal who is acting strangely (i.e., a nocturnal animal who is out during the day, an animal who acts unusually tame). Report the animal to local animal control officers as soon as possible. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/cat", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/diseases"]}