{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/119", "title": "Koi Fish Care", "text": "Koi Fish Care The Spruce Pets #fish #koi #general #nutrient If you know someone who has a pond, chances are they keep a couple of Koi to brighten it up. Koi fish are some of the most common, well-known fish to keep in outdoor garden ponds. In Japan where they were first bred, they are highly prized and are even the main subjects of many myths and artwork. Although they are directly related to goldfish, it would be a big mistake to assume that they have the same level of care. These fish could never live in a tank, they need an outdoor pond. Advertisements Do you think you are ready to open your pond to a few Koi? Read on to discover the best possible way to care for these gorgeous, long-living carp. Koi fish are ornamental variations of the common carp (Cyprinus carpio). They belong to the family Cyprinidae, which includes all carps and minnows. The word Koi comes from the Japanese word for carp. Keeping and breeding Koi began in 19th century Japan when farmers kept colorful specimens of the native carp in their rice gardens. Now the keeping and breeding of these fish is a widespread and lucrative industry. Unfortunately, the popularity of these beautiful fish has led them to become invasive in waters all over the world. In the wild, common carp only live for about 20 years due. But captive Koi can live up to 50 years if they are cared for properly. Common varieties found in most backyard ponds can be purchased from pond and aquarium suppliers for anywhere between $50 and $80. Special varieties must be purchased from a breeder – these can be very expensive, ranging from as low as $200 to as high as $1000+. Types Koi fish can reach lengths of up to 3 feet – they are one of the largest cyprinids and one of the largest fish commonly kept in backyard ponds. They generally have two barbels on both sides of the jaw and have a round snout and a toothless jaw for taking in gulps of prey. Advertisements Females are larger and have rounder bodies than males. Typically, their fins are short and rounded, with lobed caudal fins. However, certain varieties are bred for their long trailing fins. These gorgeous fish come in striking colors. They are typically white or silver, with iridescent scales and colorful spots and markings. These markings can be red, gold, orange, black, or even deep blue. Their exact color and markings depending on the type. Butterfly Koi Fish Butterfly Koi (also known as Dragon Koi) are named after their long pectoral and caudal fins. They are highly prized and valuable to keepers. This variety can be found in any of the typical color forms and is only set apart from others by the length of its fins. Japanese Koi Fish These are the most common Koi that you will see in most ponds and water gardens. Kohaku Japanese Koi are white with orange/red markings. They are considered the standard variety. Tancho Koi are Kohaku Koi with a single red spot on the top of the head. Dragon Koi Fish The dragon can refer to two different kinds of Koi. More often, it’s just another term for the Butterfly Koi. The Kumonryu variant is also referred to as a Dragon Fish. This is a black and white fish with markings that change depending on the seasons. Black and White Koi Fish Shiro Utsui fish are white with black spots and markings. Some have a split-head pattern with white on one side of the head and black on the other. Matsuba Koi can be black and white as well, but can also have black markings over a red or gold body. Gold Koi Fish Ogon is a highly prized one-color variety. An Ogon fish is entirely silver, orange or gold. Typical Koi with gold markings over white bodies are called Ki. Kinrin fish have beautiful scales that sparkle like gold coins. Care Koi is susceptible to a fatal herpesvirus. Koi herpesvirus, or KHV, is a contagious virus that affects all varieties of the common carp. Once a fish has been infected, there is an 80 percent chance that it will die from the illness. Death occurs as quickly as a day or two and any fish that survive the infection become permanent carriers that can infect other carp in the pond. Symptoms of KHV include breathing difficulty, sunken eyes, and red and white lesions at the gills. In many cases, the whole population must be euthanized once one fish is infected. Advertisements KHV can be prevented by carefully inspecting the health of any new carp that you introduce to your pond. New fish should be quarantined for up to 2 weeks before you place them in your pond. Other illnesses and parasites that affect Koi fish include fish lice, ich, and ulcerative diseases that affect goldfish and other carp. Watch for erratic or uncoordinated swimming, lethargy, or breathing difficulty. Your fish will gulp at the air if it is having trouble breathing. Even though these fish have a very high tolerance for poor water quality pond maintenance is the most important aspect of care and disease prevention. You should clean the pond and check your filter every 2 to 4 weeks. Diet In the wild, these fish are known for their huge appetites and have a similar diet to goldfish. They are omnivores that eat seeds and plant material, algae, zooplankton, and insects. They do not prey on other fish but may eat their eggs. In a well-stocked pond, your fish will find vegetation and critters to munch on. The best diet for them includes an even mix of both natural and commercial foods. They will readily eat algae and aquatic plants. You should keep a good stock of algae and floating weeds to discourage them from uprooting the plants in your water garden. Advertisements To satisfy their love of zooplankton, introduce water fleas and brine shrimp to your pond. You can also give them insects and insect larvae purchased from an aquarium supplier or bait shop. Any commercial foods you give them should be high in protein. They will feed at all levels of the pond and can be given pellets that will reach all depths. You can supplement their diets with farm grains such as rice and corn. Most of your Koi’s nutrition will come from what they find in your pond. You can give them up to 3 small portions of additional pellet food per day. An automatic fish feeder set for twice a day works wonders for most pond fish. Breeding Breeding Koi fish will require a separate pond for mating and spawning. Advertisements It can be done naturally or induced through artificial means such as hormone injections. The fish will reach sexual maturity between 2 and 5 years old and natural breeding will occur in the springtime. In a breeding pond, there should be 2-3 males for every female. Larger, older females are the best spawners. To encourage natural breeding conditions, keep your breeding pond at temperatures between 64-72°F. They should be fed food high in protein and include both natural and commercial foods, up to 3 times a day. Females will lay their eggs in your shallow-water vegetation, and the male will fertilize them once they are laid. This kind of external fertilization occurs in many different species of fish. Once the eggs are fertilized, they must be removed and placed in an incubation tank. They will hatch in 3 to 4 days. Your newborn fish will not look like much. In the larval stage, they are extremely tiny and will drift through the water like zooplankton. Once they reach the fry stage and lose their yolk sacs, they will look like very tiny scale-less fish. Fry can be reared in an indoor tank until they reach the juvenile stage. They should be fed larval brine shrimp and hardboiled eggs mixed with water. Once they reach the juvenile stage, they will look just like miniature versions of adult fish. They can then be placed in the pond and given the same foods that you give the adults. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/fish", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/koi", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/general", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/nutrient"]}