{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/23", "title": "Kennel cough in dog", "text": "Kennel cough in dog ASPCA #dog #diseases Kennel cough is a term loosely used to describe a complex of respiratory infections—both viral and bacterial—that causes inflammation of a dog’s voice box and windpipe. It’s a form of bronchitis and is similar to a chest cold in humans. Though it usually clears up on its own, kennel cough is highly contagious to other dogs. Symptoms of Kennel Cough •A persistent dry cough with a “honking” sound. •In most cases, she’ll appear healthy except for the cough. •Gagging •Coughing up white foamy phlegm •Fever •Nasal discharge Causes of Kennel Cough Dogs can catch kennel cough in several ways: •Kennel cough can spread through aerosols in the air, directly from dog to dog, or through germs on contaminated objects. •Kennel cough is often spread in enclosed areas with poor air circulation, like a kennel or an animal shelter. •Kennel cough can also spread through direct contact like shared water dishes or even greeting another dog. Most kennels will not board a pet without proof of a recent vaccination against parainfluenza and Bordetella, two of the main causes of kennel cough. Dogs More Prone to Kennel Cough •Dogs who have frequent contact with other dogs, especially in enclosed or poorly-ventilated areas, are most prone to becoming infected. •Young and unvaccinated dogs are also at higher risk. Kennel Cough Prevention •The best way to prevent kennel cough is to prevent exposure. •Vaccinations are also available for several of the agents known to be involved in kennel cough, including parainfluenza, Bordetella and adenovirus-2. •Ask your vet if these are recommended, and how often. •Vaccinations aren’t useful if a dog has already caught the virus. Kennel Cough Treatment See your veterinarian if your dog develops a cough. In some cases, you may be advised to simply let kennel cough run its course and heed the following: •Dogs with kennel cough should be isolated from other dogs. •A humidifier, vaporizer or steam from a shower can provide relief for irritated breathing passages. •Avoid exposing your dog to cigarette smoke or other noxious, irritating fumes. •A cough suppressant or antimicrobial may be prescribed. •If your dog pulls against her collar while being walked, replace it with a harness until the coughing subsides. •Supportive care is very important—be sure your dog is eating, drinking and in a stress-free environment. Kennel Cough Recovery •In most cases, the signs of kennel cough gradually decrease and disappear after three weeks. •Young puppies, elderly dogs and other immunocompromised animals may take up to six weeks or more to recover. •Animals may remain infectious for long periods of time even after the symptoms have cleared up. When to See the Vet •If you suspect your dog has kennel cough, immediately isolate her from all other dogs and call your veterinarian. •After a dog has been diagnosed, you should see some improvement in your dog’s condition within one week of treatment, but be alert to how long the symptoms last. •If your dog has nasal discharge, is breathing rapidly, refuses to eat or seems lethargic, take her back to the veterinarian right away. •Serious cases of kennel cough can lead to pneumonia if left untreated. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/dog", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/diseases"]}