{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/25", "title": "Rabies in dog", "text": "Rabies in dog ASPCA #dog #diseases Rabies is a viral disease that may affect the brain and spinal cord of all mammals, including cats, dogs and humans. This preventable disease has been reported in every state except Hawaii. There’s good reason that the very word “rabies” evokes fear in people—once symptoms appear, rabies is close to 100% fatal. Rabies Transmission There are several reported routes of transmission of the rabies virus. •Rabies is most often transmitted through a bite from an infected animal. •Less frequently, it can be passed on when the saliva of an infected animal enters another animal’s body through mucous membranes or an open, fresh wound. •The risk for contracting rabies runs highest if your dog is exposed to wild animals. Outbreaks can occur in populations of wild animals (most often raccoons, bats, skunks and foxes in this country) or in areas where there are significant numbers of unvaccinated, free-roaming dogs and cats. Rabies Prevention •Vaccination is the key—and in many areas of the country, such as New York City, it's the law. •Some local ordinances require lengthy quarantines—or euthanasia—of pets who have bitten someone if their owners do not have proof of current vaccination. •Vaccinating your dog doesn't just protect him from rabies—it also protects your dog if he bites someone. Dogs who have bitten humans are required to be confined for at least 10 days to see if rabies develops. •Avoiding contact with wild animals is also necessary to prevention. Walk your dog on a leash and supervise him while he’s outsoodrs. Symptoms of Rabies Animals will not show signs immediately following exposure to a rabid animal. Symptoms can be varied and can take between two and eight weeks to incubate. Classic signs of rabies in dogs include: •Changes in behavior (including restlessness, apprehension, aggression or irritability) •Biting or snapping at any form of stimulus. •Attacking other animals, humans and even inanimate objects •Licking, biting and chewing at the bite site •Fever •Hypersensitivity •Hiding in dark places •Eating unusual objects •Paralysis of the throat and jaw muscles •Foaming at the mouth •Disorientation, incoordination and staggering •Paralysis of the hind legs •Loss of appetite •Weakness •Seizures •Sudden death Transmission of the virus through saliva can happen as early as ten days before symptoms appear. Diagnosing Rabies •There is no accurate test to diagnose rabies in live animals. •The direct fluorescent antibody test is the most accurate test for diagnosis, but it can only be performed after the death of the animal on brain tissue. There is no treatment or cure for rabies once symptoms appear. The disease results in death. When to See the Vet •When Your Dog Interacts With a Rabid Animal •Call your veterinarian for an immediate appointment! •Contact local animal control officers if the animal who bit your pet is still at large; they will be best able to safely apprehend and remove the animal from the environment. •The rabies virus may remain alive on your pet’s skin for up to two hours. It is best not to touch your dog during this time. If you must handle your dog, wear gloves and protective clothing. •A dog who is up to date with his vaccinations and who has been bitten by a possibly rabid animal should also be given a rabies booster vaccine immediately and kept under observation (length will vary depending on your state laws). •If you think you’ve been bitten by a rabid animal, see your doctor immediately! Note: Do not attempt to handle or capture a wild animal who is acting strangely (i.e., a nocturnal animal who is out during the day, an animal who acts unusually tame). Report the animal to local animal control officers as soon as possible. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/dog", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/diseases"]}