{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/108", "title": "Danio Behavior", "text": "Danio Behavior The Spruce Pets #fish #danio #behavior issues Danios are social fish that exhibit shoaling behavior. Many danio shoals have hierarchical systems. The most dominant fish in the shoal establish their leadership through playful behaviors. In an under-populated or over-cramped tank, danios are known to show more aggressive behaviors than usual, such as chasing and nipping the fins of their less-dominant peers. This can be avoided by buying the right number of danios and placing the fish in the right-sized tank. Advertisements Danios are peaceful, but the fish show signs of aggression to slow-moving, long-finned fish. Don’t house danios with slow-moving fish to prevent fin-nipping. Housing danios alone can stress the fish and lead to lethargy and illness. Keeping danios in shoals of around six to twelve will prevent this issue. Danios become hyperactive in large shoals, so don’t buy too many danios for your aquarium. Danios occupy the top, middle, and bottom sections of the aquarium, but these fish predominantly reside in the middle to upper layers. Tank Mates Before you consider housing danios with any other fish species, make sure you have enough danios in your shoal. Danios become stressed when kept on their own, and you should house these fish in groups of at least five (one male to four females). Advertisements Danios school with their own species. For instance, in the wild, zebra danios will swim with celestial pearl danios if there aren’t enough fish of their kind to shoal with. Danios are compatible with other types of danios, so consider adding different danio species to your tank before you look for other fish. Some of the other fish that can be housed with danios are: \tHoney gouramis — Inexperienced fishkeepers should consider adding honey gouramis to their community tank. Honey gouramis are peaceful, shy fish that are easy to care for and can be kept in pairs or groups. Although honey gouramis aren’t schooling fish, these fish enjoy one another’s company. \tScarlet badis —A popular breed of nano fish is the scarlet badis. This freshwater fish is tiny, and the males grow to no larger than eight-tenths of an inch. Full-sized females reach half an inch in length. Scarlet badis are peaceful fish that hide in plants and avoid big fish. \tEmber tetras — Sometimes known as fire tetras, ember tetras are eye-catching fish that aren’t easily scared. These active, playful fish usually swim in the mid-section of the tank. Ember tetras are shoaling fish and exhibit peaceful, cautious behavior. \tRosy barbs — Active fish with bright colors and peaceful temperaments, rosy barbs are one of the larger members of the barb species. These fish make great community fish, but, like danios, rosy barbs have a tendency for fin-nipping and shouldn’t be housed with slow-moving, long-finned fish. \tRummy nose tetras —Three similar fish species are classed as rummy nose tetras, but the true rummy nose tetra is the Hemigrammus rhodostomus. Rummy nose tetras are peaceful shoaling fish that enjoy having plenty of swimming space. \tCorydoras — These small, tropical freshwater catfish are peaceful schooling fish that do well in groups of 6 or more. Corydoras are shy fish that scavenge for food at the bottom of the tank and prefer stable water parameters. \tDojo loaches — Also known as pond loaches or weather loaches, dojo loaches are bottom-dwelling tank cleaners that spend most of their waking hours eating algae. Hardy and peaceful, dojo loaches do best when housed in small groups. \tAquatic invertebrates —Snail species, like zebra snails, are peaceful tankmates for danios, and help to keep the tank clean. Freshwater shrimp, like the blue velvet shrimp, are other compatible aquatic invertebrates. You can also house danios with frogs, such as the African dwarf frog. There are several fish that shouldn’t be housed with danios, including long-finned, slow-moving fish, like elephant ear guppies and sailfin molly fish. Danios will nip the fins of these fish. Predatory fish like redtail catfish shouldn’t be housed with danios, as these fish are known to view danios as food. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/fish", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/danio", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/behavior%20issues"]}