{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/124", "title": "General Care for a Pet Rabbit", "text": "General Care for a Pet Rabbit The Spruce Pets #rabbit #general #grooming Rabbits are prey animals, which means housing your rabbit outdoors is generally not a good idea; keep your rabbit enclosure indoors. When not being directly supervised, your rabbit should be kept in an enclosure that's at least 2 feet by 3 feet for one medium-size rabbit. Multiple rabbits housed together need more space. The height of the enclosure should be greater than the height of your rabbit when it fully stretches up on its hind legs. Because rabbits have tender feet, avoid wire-bottom cages; a better choice is a plastic-bottom dog crate.3 Inside the enclosure, provide your rabbit with: •\tPlenty of toys, including chew toys •\tA shelf onto which your rabbit can hop to maintain leg strength •\tCeramic food and water dishes •\tA litter box With all the items in the enclosure, make sure there's still enough room for your rabbit to fully stretch out with its back legs extended. Many pet rabbits are allowed to roam around the house when their owners are around. If you choose to allow this, be very careful to rabbit-proof your home. Rabbits love to chew, and dangerous electrical cords are at just the right height for them to find and munch on. If you'd rather not give your rabbit run of the house, you can provide it with an exercise pen. Pens designed for puppies are ideal. They provide room to move without giving your bunny the option of exploring potentially dangerous spaces. Many owners even use exercise pens as their rabbit's primary enclosure. Specific Substrate Needs Regardless of what type of enclosure you choose for your rabbit, make sure the floor is nonslip. Some owners put washable carpeting on the enclosure floor to give the rabbit some cushion. You also can put down some straw for your rabbit to make a cozy nest. Use dye-free paper litter in the litter box; never use clumping litter. Plan to clean the litter box at least every other day and wipe down the whole enclosure with mild soap and water weekly. Grooming Rabbits do groom themselves, but brushing helps to remove loose fur and prevent hairballs. Brush short-hair rabbits roughly once a week. Long-hair rabbits often need brushing daily to prevent tangles and mats. Baths are generally not necessary, though you might need to spot clean a dirty part of your rabbit’s coat by gently rubbing it with a damp cloth. Most rabbits also need nail trims, as they don’t naturally wear down their nails enough in their indoor environment. Your vet can show you how to properly trim nails at home. Upkeep Costs Rabbits may be small, but they are relatively expensive animals. On a monthly basis, your primary costs will be for food and litter. Plus, you’ll need to replace worn toys—especially chew toys—on a regular basis. Finally, don’t forget to budget for routine veterinary checkups and emergencies. Pros & Cons of Keeping a Rabbit as a Pet Rabbits are quiet pets that don’t take up a great deal of space. They also can be quite social, playful, and engaged with their owners. However, their upkeep is relatively expensive. And they need a lot of interaction, which often means keeping a second rabbit. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/rabbit", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/general", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/grooming"]}