{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/76", "title": "Respiratory infections in Chameleon", "text": "Respiratory infections in Chameleon Chameleon Owner #reptile #chameleon #diseases Description A respiratory infection is a common health problem associated with chameleons. It characterizes an infection to the respiratory tract of a chameleon. It could be an upper or lower respiratory infection depending on the area the infection occurs. If it affects the lungs and causes pneumonia, it is called a lower respiratory tract infection. On the flip side, if it affects the nasal sinuses and mouth, it is an upper respiratory tract infection. Causes This condition is caused by a temperature that is too low in the environment or enclosure of the chameleon. It can also ensue when the cage is too wet or dry. It could also be caused by some other underlying problem. Upper respiratory infections are the most common among pet chameleons and are usually caused by environmental factors. The type of cage used can determine how humid or dry the air will be. Signs Signs of this disease include gaping, loss of appetite, labored breathing and lethargy. Other signs include popping or wheezing sounds, inflammation, bubbling around the nose and mouth, and excessive mucus. If your chameleon snores while sleeping, it may be a sign of this disease. Prevention Prevention of this disease is by ensuring the quality of the air in the enclosure remains uncompromised. This can be achieved by making sure to remove dirt and litter regularly from the enclosure, or other materials such as left over food which can breed infectious agents. Of greater importance is the temperature of the enclosure. Ensure that the temperature does not fall below 77 degrees at daytime, and 65 degrees at night time. Treatment Respiratory infections (whether upper or lower) could be fatal. This is why it should be detected very early and treated aggressively. Antibiotic agents used for treatment include Baytril or Fortaz. As soon as you suspect that your chameleon may have contacted this disease, take it to a vet. The more you delay, the greater the probability that your chameleon will die. Attempting to treat this condition at home, and all by yourself is highly discouraged. After the etiology of the disease is established, treatment may take up to one month and a month of special care too. During this period, your chameleon should be placed in an enclosure with an optimum temperature in order to help it fight the infection more effectively. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/reptile", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/chameleon", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/diseases"]}