{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/134", "title": "Silver Fox Rabbit", "text": "Silver Fox Rabbit The Spruce Pets #rabbit #general Only the third rabbit breed to have been developed in the United States, the silver fox rabbit is an uncommon but beautiful breed of rabbit. The silver fox was originally known as the American heavyweight silver due to its larger size and silver- and white-tipped fur but despite the name change, these rabbits still make sturdy, affectionate pets. Species Overview Common Name: Silver Fox Rabbit Scientific Name: Oryctolagus Cuniculus Adult Size: Up to 5.44 kilograms Lifespan: Typically 5-7 years but can live up to 10 years Silver Fox Rabbit Behavior and Temperament Known to love attention and have good personalities as pets, silver fox rabbits are great for kids because they are gentle and large. They aren't small and skittish but are rather gentle and patient, which also makes them a great breed to show. Size Information Silver fox rabbits are larger than many other rabbit breeds. They can grow to be as heavy as 12 pounds, but some males will only get to be 9 pounds fully grown. This is larger than a breed standard Chihuahua or Pomeranian! Housing You have a lot of options when it comes to housing your silver fox rabbit. Outdoor rabbit hutches can be built or purchased but should be very secure to ensure your little bunny can't escape and predators can't break in. Indoor enclosures can also be purchased but since rabbits need a lot of space to run around, it is recommended to provide your silver fox rabbit with a cage that is at least 4 ft x 4 ft in addition to a rabbit-proofed play area in your home. Specific Substrate Needs If you choose to use a substrate in your silver fox rabbit's cage, avoid cedar and pine shavings. These wood shavings can be aromatic and also contain oils that can cause respiratory and skin issues for your rabbit. Aspen shavings or recycled paper materials are better options if you want to give your bunny some bedding to sleep in or walk on. These same substrates can also be placed in your rabbit's litter box or you can use hay or unscented, dust-free cat litter to help absorb urine. What Do Silver Fox Rabbits Eat & Drink? All rabbits including silver fox rabbits need a variety of veggies and hay in their diet in addition to fresh water. About 1/4 cup of rabbit pellets (without seeds or food coloring) should be offered each day, but your rabbit should primarily eat grass hays and dark, leafy green vegetables. Less than 10 percent of their diet can consist of treats like sugar-free cereals, crackers, fruits, and vegetables that aren't green. Both a water bottle and bowl of water should always be available to encourage your silver fox to drink adequate water. Common Health Problems Silver fox rabbits are usually healthy, but any pet rabbit is prone to developing some of the following health issues: •\tDental issues •\tEar mites and infections •\tSkin mites and infections •\tEye problems •\tRespiratory issues •\tIleus •\tReproductive organ issues All these health problems and many others will require the help of a veterinarian experienced in rabbit care. Training Your Silver Fox Rabbit Rabbits are very smart animals and can be trained to walk on a leash as well as use a litter box. Leash Training If you want to keep your rabbit close to you while still giving it some exercise outside, a harness and leash may be a good option. Make sure you choose a harness that is specifically designed for a larger rabbit's body and coax them to walk on the leash using treats until they get used to it. You should never drag your rabbit on a leash. Potty Training Litter box training your silver fox rabbit isn't very difficult and can help you keep your home clean. It will also encourage you to let your rabbit roam around the house to get more exercise if you know you won't step in a surprise. Since rabbits like to eat and poop at the same time, putting your rabbit's hay hopper in a place where they have to sit in the litter box to eat is one of the easiest things you can do to start the potty training process. Exercise Exercise is vital to any rabbit's mental and physical health. Silver fox rabbits need ample space to run and play every day so that they can forage for food, be mentally stimulated, find things to chew on, maintain muscle mass, and keep their digestive tracts moving. Gastrointestinal motility can decrease or stop due to stress as well as a lack of physical mobility, so if you don't give your silver fox rabbit exercise, it is likely to develop serious health issues. Grooming The silver fox rabbit is known for its beautiful coat, so you'll want to ensure you do your part to help keep it clean and shiny. Shedding Silver fox rabbits shed on a regular basis but major molts or sheds occur twice a year in the spring and fall. During these major sheds, more fur will be lost by your rabbit than normal. Brushing Since silver fox rabbits have longer hair than you might expect, occasional brushing to help keep the fur free of knots, debris, and food is helpful. If your rabbit develops matting on their feet or hind ends, there is most likely an issue with the environment or a medical concern that should be addressed. Baths Like cats, silver fox rabbits will keep themselves clean on their own so unless it runs through a mess, is sick and gets a dirty hind end, or has a messy meal, you shouldn't have to bathe it. If a bath is needed though, make sure you use warm, not hot, water and dish soap. Upkeep Costs Caring for a silver fox rabbit may cost more than you expect. Due to daily fresh vegetables, hay, and pellets, expect to spend on food and another on toys and bedding. Additionally, you'll want to budget for routine and emergency vet visits for when your rabbit requires medical attention or consider pet insurance. Pros & Cons of Keeping a Silver Fox Rabbit as a Pet Rabbits require a lot more space and attention than many people think, but they are also very personable pets. Silver fox rabbits are easy to handle and play with, but they do require fresh vegetables to eat each day and will need their litter box cleaned regularly. Reproduction/Breeding If you decide to get more than one rabbit and they are of opposite sexes, you'll want to get your female spayed to prevent unwanted litters. Alternatively, you can get two females. If you want to get two males, you'll need to get them neutered if you want to keep them from fighting with each other. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/rabbit", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/general"]}