{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/87", "title": "Parasites in Snake", "text": "Parasites in Snake PetKeen #reptile #snake #diseases Snakes can be affected by both internal and external parasites, and both are quite common in captive reptiles. Internal parasites include roundworms, tapeworms, or even cryptosporidium, which affects the lining of the stomach and intestines. More often than not, internal parasites go unnoticed until a routine exam where a fecal test is performed. Mites are external parasites that reproduce quickly and will cause symptoms once the infestation becomes more severe. Larger infestations will feed on so much blood it may lead to lethargy, anemia, and even death if left untreated. Signs of Internal Parasites •Poor appetite •Weight loss •Vomiting or regurgitation •Abnormal appearing stools •Diarrhea •Worms in the stool Signs of External Parasites •Excessive soaking in the water dish •Small moving black or red specks •Restlessness •Head twitching Causes Internal parasites are often ingested by the snake while mites are typically introduced through new animals, substrate, or by the handler transferring them from another location to the snake through contact. Mites are fairly common at reptile expos and pet stores because of how many reptiles are present at these locations. Diagnosis Diagnosing internal parasites is done via a fecal exam completed by a veterinarian. Mites are typically easy to identify since they are visible to the naked eye. But they are incredibly small, and owners may not even notice until they observe their snake soaking in the water dish excessively. Mites can be seen in the enclosure, hidden within the scales, and around the eyes and mouth. Treatment Treatment for parasites will be dependent on the type of parasite affecting the snake. Antiparasitic medications will be administered by the veterinarian if internal parasites are the issue. Mites can be difficult to treat, and it can take several weeks to rid an infestation. Soaking the snake in gentle dish soap or even olive oil can help treat the mites on the skin. The enclosure will need to be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected frequently as you work to treat the mites. Certain sprays are made specifically for snake mites but always use caution with these insecticide sprays around your sensitive snake. Always speak to your veterinarian if you have any questions on how to take care of a mite problem. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/reptile", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/snake", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/diseases"]}