{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/121", "title": "Koi Fish Behavior", "text": "Koi Fish Behavior The Spruce Pets #fish #koi #behavior issues Koi are very peaceful fish that will interact with the others in their school while leaving that outside of their school alone. They form schools of anywhere between 5 and 15 individuals and will swim in beautifully coordinated formations. Koi will visit every level of your pond. They will swim and dart along the surface and middle levels and forage for natural foods at the bottom. In colder temperatures, they will shelter at the deeper levels of your pond. Advertisements They are very active and free-swimming fish that will show off their vibrant colors at every opportunity. Koi fish have a rather interesting way of hunting for food. When foraging, they will dig and burrow into the sediment to uproot plants and munch on tasty seeds. They eat like a vacuum, taking in big gulps of food and filtering out the dirt and mud. Advertisements This is a rather unusual feeding strategy that makes them a major pest to freshwater ecosystems. Pond Mates Goldfish are one of the best pond mates for Koi Fish. In the wild, these fish live among other carp species. They can also be found alongside smaller Minnows and Killifish. They are found in lakes and streams that have large game fish like Catfish, Perch, and Bass. Koi are very peaceful fish that will not harass or prey on the other fish in your pond, so there are quite a lot of options for stocking. Goldfish are one of the most popular pond mate choices. They are similar in color and appearance and look beautiful when they swim alongside one another. Grass carp serve as great tank mates and natural pruning systems for your pond – they have a huge appetite for vegetation and will help to trim down any plants that might be growing out of control. Sunfish do very well alongside all kinds of carp – Redear sunfish are a particularly popular choice for stocking a carp pond. Other good pond mates include Catfish, largemouth bass and striped bass. Be aware that the bigger game fish will require a larger pond size. Amphibians (particularly Frogs) make the best non-fishpond mates. You can encourage the local Frogs, Salamanders, and Newts to drop by for a visit. It is best to attract frogs naturally to your pond, rather than to stock your pond with frogs. Frogs from pet shops or other ponds may be carrying bacterial infections that can spread to your fish. You should avoid keeping bluegill with any kind of Carp. Bluegill and Carp are natural rivals and they can be very destructive to your garden when competing for food and resources. Small Cyprinids classified as nano fish should be avoided as well. These fish are often very anxious in the presence of large tank mates. Keeping Koi Fish Together Koi are at their best when they are in a group. They should be kept in schools of at least 5, and in larger ponds, you can keep up to 15 individuals. Advertisements © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/fish", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/koi", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/behavior%20issues"]}