{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/139", "title": "General Care for a Pet Guinea Pig", "text": "General Care for a Pet Guinea Pig The Spruce Pets #rodents #general #grooming Guinea pigs are a species of rodent that enjoys great popularity as an exotic pet. There are several varieties of guinea pigs with different coat types and color patterns. The most common are the American (short, smooth coat), Abyssinian (short coat with swirls called rosettes), and Peruvian (long coat). There also are hairless varieties called skinny pigs. As pets, guinea pigs are typically friendly and docile. Their care is moderately time-consuming but straightforward. Their housing is easy to set up and maintain, and their diets are readily available at most pet stores. Species Overview COMMON NAMES: Guinea pig, cavy, domestic cavy SCIENTIFIC NAME: Cavia porcellus ADULT SIZE: 20.32 to 48.46 cm long, weighing 0.90 to 1.36 kg LIFESPAN: 6 to 8 years; some live up to 10 years Guinea Pig Behavior and Temperament Guinea pigs are social animals, so it's recommended to keep them in same-sex pairs or small groups to prevent loneliness and boredom.1 A pair of females is the better option, as two males will sometimes fight, especially if they're not neutered. It's best not to let your guinea pig interact with other pets in the household—especially any predatory animals such as dogs, cats, and ferrets—as they can be easily injured. As pets, guinea pigs might be nervous at first, but they rarely bite. With frequent handling, they generally become tame and comfortable being picked up and carried around. Guinea pigs will bond with the people who take care of them most, and many enjoy cuddling with their owners. Some also will squeal out of excitement when they see their favorite people. Guinea pigs have a range of personalities, from shy to outgoing. But overall they are gentle and affable pets. Moreover, while they're usually quiet animals, guinea pigs can make some fairly loud vocalizations, especially when they're squealing for excitement about a meal. They also sometimes make a deep purring sound when they're relaxed. They're typically active during the day, though they occasionally wake up and move around at night. So you might not want to keep their enclosure in your bedroom if you're a light sleeper. Guinea pigs can be a greater time commitment than some people might expect from such a small animal. Plan to spend at least a few hours per day giving your pet attention out of its enclosure, allowing it to exercise and explore. And in addition to daily feedings, expect to spend time cleaning the enclosure at least once a week. Size Information Guinea pigs stretch between 8 and 19 inches long on average. And they weigh around 2 to 3 pounds. They grow rapidly during their first four months and then fully fill out at around a year old. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/rodents", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/general", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/grooming"]}