{"url": "http://localhost:3000/article/10", "title": "Aggression", "text": "Aggression ASPCA #dog #aggression #behavior issues Aggression is the most common and most serious behavior problem in dogs. It’s also the number-one reason why pet parents seek professional help from behaviorists, trainers and veterinarians. What Is Aggression? The term “aggression” refers to a wide variety of behaviors that occur for a multitude of reasons in various circumstances. Virtually all wild animals are aggressive when guarding their territories, defending their offspring and protecting themselves. Species that live in groups, including people and dogs, also use aggression and the threat of aggression to keep the peace and to negotiate social interactions. To say that a dog is “aggressive” can mean a whole host of things. Aggression encompasses a range of behaviors that usually begins with warnings and can culminate in an attack. Dogs may abort their efforts at any point during an aggressive encounter. A dog that shows aggression to people usually exhibits some part of the following sequence of increasingly intense behaviors: • Becoming very still and rigid • Guttural bark that sounds threatening • Lunging forward or charging at the person with no contact • Mouthing, as though to move or control the person, without applying significant pressure • “Muzzle punch” (the dog literally punches the person with her nose) • Growl • Showing teeth • Snarl (a combination of growling and showing teeth) • Snap • Quick nip that leaves no mark • Quick bite that tears the skin • Bite with enough pressure to cause a bruise • Bite that causes puncture wounds • Repeated bites in rapid succession • Bite and shake Dogs don’t always follow this sequence, and they often do several of the behaviors above simultaneously. Many times, pet parents don’t recognize the warning signs before a bite, so they perceive their dogs as suddenly flying off the handle. However, that’s rarely the case. It can be just milliseconds between a warning and a bite, but dogs rarely bite without giving some type of warning beforehand. Classification of Aggressive Behavior If your dog has been aggressive in the past or you suspect she could become aggressive, take time to evaluate the situations that have upset her. Who bore the brunt of her aggression? When and where did it happen? What else was going on at the time? What had just happened or was about to happen to your dog? What seemed to stop her aggression? Learning the answers to these questions can clarify the circumstances that trigger your dog’s aggressive reaction and provide insight into the reasons for her behavior. You need an accurate diagnosis before you can hope to help your dog. Aggressive behavior problems in dogs can be classified in different ways. A beneficial scheme for understanding why your dog is aggressive is based on the function or purpose of the aggression. If you think of aggression this way, you can determine what motivates your dog to behave aggressively and identify what she hopes to gain from her behavior. Territorial Aggression Some dogs will attack and bite an intruder, whether the intruder is friend or foe. Dogs’ wild relatives are territorial. They live in certain area, and they defend this area from intruders. Wolves are highly territorial. If a coyote or a wolf who’s not part of a pack invades their territory, the resident wolves will attack and drive off the intruder. Some dogs display the same tendencies. They bark and charge at people or other animals encroaching on their home turf. Dogs are often valued for this level of territorial behavior. However, some dogs will attack and bite an intruder, whether the intruder is friend or foe. Territorial aggression can occur along the boundary regularly patrolled by a dog or at the boundaries of her pet parents’ property. Other dogs show territorial aggression only toward people or other animals coming into the home. Male and female dogs are equally prone to territorial aggression. Puppies are rarely territorial. Territorial behavior usually appears as puppies mature into adolescence or adulthood, at one to three years of age. Protective Aggression Dogs may show aggressive behavior when they think that one of their family members or friends is in peril. Dogs are a social species. If they were left on their own, they would live together in small groups, or packs, of family and friends. If one member of a pack is in danger, the others typically rush in to help defend that individual. This is classified as protective aggression because the dogs are protecting one of their own. Pet dogs may show the same type of aggressive behavior when they think that one of their family members or friends (human or animal) is in peril. Sometimes dogs reserve protective aggression for individuals they consider particularly vulnerable. A dog who has never shown aggression to strangers in the past might start behaving aggressively when she has a litter of puppies. Likewise, a dog might first show protective aggression when her pet parents bring a human child into the family. While this behavior sounds appealing at first glance, problems arise when the protective dog starts to treat everyone outside the family, including friends and relatives, as threats to the baby’s safety. Both male and female dogs are equally prone to protective aggression. Puppies are rarely protective. Like territorial behavior, protective aggression usually appears as puppies mature into adolescence or adulthood, at one to three years of age. Possessive Aggression Many dogs show the tendency to guard their possessions from others, whether they need to or not. Dogs evolved from wild ancestors who had to compete for food, nesting sites and mates to survive. Even though our pet dogs no longer face such harsh realities, many still show the tendency to guard their possessions from others, whether they need to or not. Some dogs only care about their food. These dogs might react aggressively when a person or another animal comes near their food bowl or approaches them while they’re eating. Other dogs guard their chew bones, their toys or things they’ve stolen. Still others guard their favorite resting spots, their crates or their beds (Often, these dogs also guard their pet parents’ beds!). Less common are dogs who guard water bowls. Usually a possessive dog is easy to identify because she’s only aggressive when she has something she covets. But some dogs will hide their cherished things around the house and guard them from unsuspecting people or animals who have no idea that they’re anywhere near a valued object. Male and female dogs are equally prone to possessive aggression, and this type of aggression is common in both puppies and adults. For more detailed information about food-related possessive aggression and how to treat it, please see our article, Food Guarding. Fear Aggression A fearful dog may become aggressive if cornered or trapped. When animals and people are afraid of something, they prefer to get away from that thing. This is called the flight response. But if escaping isn’t an option, most animals will switch to a fight response. They try to defend themselves from the scary thing. So a dog can be afraid of a person or another animal but still attack if she thinks this is her only recourse. A fearful dog will normally adopt fearful postures and retreat, but she may become aggressive if cornered or trapped. Some dogs will cower at the prospect of physical punishment but attack when a threatening personapproaches. Fear aggression can occur when a dog is exposed to a fearful or traumatic event or when she lacks proper socialization and confidence. Fear aggression can be directed towards people, other animals, or specific situations. It is important to note that fear aggression is rooted in fear and anxiety, and punishing or forcing the dog will only exacerbate the problem. Fear aggression can occur in dogs of any age or sex, and early intervention is crucial to prevent the behavior from worsening. Defensive Aggression Defensive aggression occurs when a dog perceives a threat and responds with aggression to protect herself. Defensive aggression is similar to fear aggression but is more specific to situations where a dog feels the need to defend herself. It can be triggered by perceived threats such as unfamiliar people or animals approaching too quickly or invading the dog's personal space. Defensive aggression is a reactive behavior intended to ward off potential harm. Dogs exhibiting defensive aggression may display warning signs such as growling, showing teeth, and snapping to create distance and prevent further escalation. Defensive aggression can occur in dogs of all ages and both sexes, and proper socialization and positive experiences can help prevent or manage this behavior. Social Aggression Some dogs show aggression towards other dogs or animals when it comes to resources, territory, or social hierarchy. Social aggression in dogs refers to aggressive behavior displayed towards other dogs or animals in social interactions. It can occur in various contexts such as resource guarding (food, toys, attention), competition for territory or mates, or establishing social hierarchy within a group. Social aggression can be seen in both male and female dogs and can range from mild displays of dominance to more intense fights. Proper socialization and training from an early age can help minimize social aggression in dogs. Frustration-Elicited Aggression Frustration can lead to aggressive behavior in dogs when they are unable to obtain or accomplish what they desire. Frustration-elicited aggression occurs when a dog becomes frustrated because she is unable to obtain or accomplish something she desires. This frustration can stem from barriers preventing access to desired objects, lack of opportunity for physical exercise or mental stimulation, or thwarted social interactions. Frustration can escalate into aggression if the dog has not learned alternative coping mechanisms or if the frustration is consistently reinforced. It's important to provide appropriate outlets for a dog's energy, mental stimulation, and teach alternative behaviors to prevent frustration-elicited aggression. Redirected Aggression Redirected aggression occurs when a dog redirects her aggression onto a different target, often due to frustration or arousal. Redirected aggression happens when a dog is aroused or frustrated by a particular stimulus but is unable to direct her aggression towards it. As a result, the dog redirects her aggression onto another target that may be nearby, such as another dog or a person. This behavior is not specifically targeted at the redirected target but is a result of the dog's heightened emotional state. Proper management and avoidance of situations that trigger the aggression can help prevent redirected aggression. Pain-Elicited Aggression Dogs in pain may exhibit aggression as a defensive response to protect themselves from further discomfort. Pain-elicited aggression occurs when a dog is in pain or discomfort and exhibits aggressive behavior as a defensive response. When a dog is in pain, she may perceive touch, handling, or certain movements as a threat to her well-being, causing her to respond aggressively to protect herself. It's essential to address any underlying medical conditions and ensure the dog receives appropriate pain management to alleviate pain-induced aggression. Sex-Related Aggression Sex-related aggression can occur due to hormonal influences and is often seen in intact male dogs. Sex-related aggression is primarily seen in intact (not neutered) male dogs and can be influenced by hormonal factors. This type of aggression is typically directed towards other male dogs and is often related to competition for mates or territory. Neutering can help reduce the incidence of sex-related aggression in male dogs. Predatory Aggression Some dogs may exhibit predatory aggression towards smaller animals or objects that trigger their prey drive. Predatory aggression is seen in some dogs when their natural prey drive is triggered by smaller animals or objects that resemble prey. Dogs with predatory aggression may exhibit stalking, chasing, and grabbing behaviors. It is important to prevent dogs with predatory aggression from having access to potential prey animals and to provide alternative outlets for their predatory instincts, such as interactive toys or games. Can Aggression be Cured? While it is possible to reduce or manage aggressive behavior in dogs through behavior modification techniques, it's important to note that complete elimination of aggression cannot be guaranteed. Aggression is a complex behavior influenced by various factors, including genetics, early experiences, socialization, and individual temperament. The goal of treatment is to minimize the occurrence and intensity of aggressive episodes, ensure the safety of all individuals involved, and improve the dog's overall quality of life. It is recommended to work with a qualified professional, such as a certified animal behaviorist or a positive reinforcement-based trainer, who can assess the dog's specific situation and design a customized behavior modification plan. Additionally, ruling out any underlying medical conditions or pain-related issues is crucial, and consulting with a veterinarian is highly recommended. Remember that each dog is unique, and the treatment approach should be tailored to the individual dog's needs. Ongoing management, supervision, and implementing safety precautions are essential to prevent aggressive incidents and ensure the well-being of everyone involved. It is important not to generalize aggression based on breed but to consider each dog's temperament, history, and specific circumstances to develop an appropriate treatment plan. © 2023 Pet Support Reserved for senior project only.", "url_lists": ["http://localhost:3000/", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/dog", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/aggression", "http://localhost:3000/searchTags/behavior%20issues"]}